# OpticalDiseases
**Introduction**
With the thorough research on multiple aspects and sources, our group decided to opt for a medical related subject i.e. ocular disease dataset from Kaggle containing patient diagnosis, demographic, and medical image data from different hospitals/medical centres in China (Larxel, 2020). This is to analyze the research questions related to age patterns in disease prevalence, image-based disease prediction models, and factors influencing diagnosis likelihood in the near future. If time permits, a comparison of supervised and unsupervised deep learning will also be performed for image recognition. Through these techniques, our group hopes to uncover insights from this multifaceted medical data.
**Dimension of the Dataset**
The dataset which represents the “real life” patient information contains about 6,400 records of ocular disease data from 5,000 patients, with 15 attributes including patient demographic information, diagnoses, and fundus images of patients' eyes. Although this doesn’t satisfy the minimum requirements of 10,000 records, however, most medical records dataset found online were between the brackets of 3000 to 6000 records only, hence, our group went with the dataset having maximum numbers and approved by the instructor. 
**Rationale for Dataset **
Our group chose this medical dataset because it presents an opportunity to work with image analysis and processing techniques, an area members were intrigued to explore. The images coupled with demographic and diagnosis data and the keywords given by doctors also enables us to investigate research questions around age-related disease trends and factors influencing human vs eye diseases likelihood that can occur due to the current state. 
